- This screencast will teach you how to utilize a shortcut heat exchanger method in the Aspen Plus software. 
- This model can be compared with the rigorous heat exchanger method as well as other methods as detailed in subsequent screencasts.
- To begin, open a new simulation with metric units. 
- Enter the process components benzene, ethylbenzene, styrene, and water. 
- In the setup folder on the menu tree, specify the valid phases as vapor-liquid-liquid. 
- The simulation will not converge if t he valid phases are left as vapor-liquid.
- In the methods folder, choose NRTL-RK as your method.
- Run the property analysis and then go to the simulation environment. 
- On the heat exchangers tab, create a shell and tube HeatX model and label the streams appropriately making sure to know which inlets and outlets correspond to the hot and cold streams.
- Press the blue “Next” arrow to specify the Cold Stream Inlet conditions. 
- Assume cooling water enters at 20 degrees Celsius and 10 bar with a mass flow rate of 60 thousand kilograms per hour.
- Press the blue “Next” arrow to specify the Hot Stream Inlet conditions suppose the stream enters at 200 degrees Celsius and 4 bar with a mass flow rate of 10 thousand kilograms per hour specify the mass fraction composition as 50% benzene 20% ethylbenzene 20% styrene and 10% water.
- Next, enter information about the heat exchanger model.
- Specify the model as a shortcut method and assume a counter current flow configuration.
- Specify the calculation mode as design and, under the exchanger specification block, specify the hot stream outlet vapor fraction as 0. 
- Assume there is no pressure drop in the heat exchanger and that the U value that Aspen calculates is sufficient. 
- Before the simulation is run you must change the cold stream property method from NRTL model to the steam tables (????)
- The cold stream only contains water and NRTL-RK is not valid for this stream.
- On the menu tree, expand the shortcut heat exchanger block and click on block options.
- For the cold side, change the property method to STEAM-TA.
- Run the simulation.
- On the menu tree, click on thermal results. 
- Notice the hot stream outlet temperature and the heat duty.
- In the exchanger details tab, you can see the heat duty once again as well as the required heat exchanger area.
- You can also see the U value used for calculations and the log mean temperature difference in the exchanger (LMTD).
- Watch the following video in the Youtube playlist to learn how to use the rigorous heat exchanger method instead.
- For more ASPEN tutorials, visit the Cornell CBE youtube channel.