- This screencast demonstrates how to model a crystallizer unit in Aspen plus software.
- Crystallization is the process in solid particles are formed out of a homogenous phase. Crystallizers are fundamental unit operations
in purification applications.
- Suppose we want to crystallize copper sulfate pentapentahydrate from an aqueous solution of 35 wt% CuSO4.
- Open your Aspen simulation and begin a new flow sheet using the Solid template, with metric units to start.
- Enter the components water, copper sulfate in solid form, copper pentahydrate insolid format, copper 2+ ion and sulfate 2- ion.
- Go to the simulation view.
- Create the inlet stream  at  90 degrees  Celsius and 1 bar. The flowrates of the components are 3% So42-,
- 
- Create the outlet stream.
- Now click on the solids tab, and place the crystallizer block on the flowsheet.
- Connect feed and effluent to the inlet and outlet.
- Double click the block to go to its specifications.
- ASPEN gives you five possible types of operating conditions to choose from: temperature, pressure, heat duty, product flow rate, and vapor flow rate.

- ASPEN also has several operations for the saturation calculation method. 
- The user can use tabulated solubility data,  an analytical solubility function,  the chemical kinetics of
the crystallization reaction, or a user defined FORTRAN subroutine.
- Leave solubility data selected.

- ASPEN additionally supports operation for either crystallizing, dissolving, or either. *Explain more?*

- Click on the Crystallization tab and enter the crystallization reaction stoichiometry. The reaction is displayed on screen to the side.
- Enter the coefficients -1, -1, and -5 for the reactants CU2+, SO42- and Water respectively. The crystal product should be copper sulfate pentahydrate, and the coefficient should be 1.

- click on the solubility tab.
- Select solvent as the solubility basis.

- For the temperatures , enter 0,1 0,20, 30, 40, 60, 80, and 100.
- For the solubility, enter 143, 174, 207,  250, 285, 400, 550, and 754 in units  of g/L of water.

- Run the simulation.
- [Explain results]
- Now go back to the crystallizer block under the menu tree and click on the recirculation tab.
- ASPEN allows for in-unit mixing of the feed with a recirculation stream, and cooling to its operating temperature.
- Change the recirculation rate to 8 kg/min.
- Run the simulation again and observe the changes to the stream results.
- [Explain results]


- Watch the following video on the YouTube playlist to learn how to model a crystallizer in ASPEN Plus.  For more Aspen plus tutorials visit the Cornell CBE YouTube channel
