- This screencast demonstrates how to model a dryer unit in Aspen plus software.

Convective Dryer Example:

- Suppose we want to model the drying of wet dolomite powder. 
- Open your Aspen simulation and begin a new flow sheet with metric units to start.
- Enter the componentscaco3, mgco3, water, and air. Set the component type of caco3 and mgco3 to solid.
- Go to methods and choose IDEAL as the property method. Run the property analysis.
- Go to the simulation view.
- Under the specifications tab under setup in the menu tree, click on MIXCIPSD for the stream class.
- Go to the solids menu under setup in the menu tree. Click the solid characterization tab. Select water as the moisutre component.
- Create a PSD  mesh with a geometric  type, from 1 mm to 10mm.
- 
- Create an input stream of 80% dolomite to 20% water on a wet basis, comingb in at 95 degrees celsius.
- Inlet air stream is coming in at 200 degrees celsius with a moisture content of .02 wt%, and a flowrate of 170 kg/min
- Now enter the dryer dimensions. The dryer length is 3 hours.
- Go to the drying curve tab, and enter the following data: 
  - 0, 0.1, 0.2, 0.35, 0.65, 0.85, 1  with 0, 0.1, 0.5, 0.8, 0.9, 0.95, and 1 respectively.
- Now enter the particle size distribution:
  - 4-5, 5-6, 6-8, and 8-10  with 20, 20, 40, and 20 respectively

Convective dryer, cocurrent  gas  flow direction, length, and solid residence time are the input specifications.
Go to the mass/heat transfer tab under Input. Enter .0005 m/sec.

Equililbrium moisture content is .05 on dry basis
Critical moisture content is .1 on dry basis.

Run the simulation.
-Now go to the stream  results. The outlet stream is now only 5% water, the remaining components being solid caco2 and mgco3.
-Go to the dryer results tab for more detailed information on the dryer operation. Here  you  can see the calculated dryer  duty,
evaporationrate, and exhaust temperature, among other metrics.

Spray Dryer Example:

- Suppose we want to model the drying of wet filter cake containing an active pharmaceutical ingredient. Let's take
the common antihypertensive drug metformin hydrochloride as an example. 
- Open your Aspen simulation and begin a new flow sheet using the Solid template, with metric units to start.
- Let's suppose we have a stream of Metformin HCL in aqueous solution, and we would like to spray dry it with air.
- Enter the components water, C4H11N5, and polyvinylpyrrolidone.
- Go to methods and choose SOLIDS as the property method. Run the property analysis.
- Go to the simulation view.
- Create an input stream of water, metformin HCl, and PVP in ratios of 18% and 80%, and 2% respectively.
- 28.4 psi. 

- Watch the following video on the YouTube playlist to learn how to model a crystallizer in ASPEN Plus.  For more Aspen plus tutorials visit the Cornell CBE YouTube channel
- Source: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/21134853/