- This screencast demonstrates how to model a cyclone separator in ASPEN plus software.

- Suppose we want to separate out ash from a flue gas stream. 

- Create a blank simulation and enter the following components:
N2,  CO2, H2O, O2, and Ash, specifying ash as a nonconventional component.

- Go to the property method selection and choose IDEAL. For ASH, we will specify the property models used
to calculate enthalpy and density. Choose HCOALGEN and HCOALLIGHT respectively.

- In Specifications, under Setup in the menu tree, select MIXNCSPD as the stream classees

- Now go to the PSD tab and define the mesh, with the values depicted on screen (show)
- Go to the solids handling tab and place a cyclone block on the flowsheet.
- Create the inlet flue gas stream and the two outlet streams, and connect them appropriately.
- The inlet stream consists of 923 mg/Nm^3 of ash, and its vapor components have the following mol fractions:
.50 for N2, .17 for CO2, .22 for H2O, and .11 for O2.
- The gas enters at 650 deg C and 2 bar.
- The ash particle size distribution is depicted on screen. Enter the corresponding values.
- Double click the cyclone block. 

ASPEN supports several calculation methods when simulating a cyclone separator. We will use the Leigh-Licht method, which (explain)

- The inlet should be Barth 1-Rectangular Inlet.
- The diameter is 2.25 m with 1 cyclone.
- Run the simulation.
- [Explain results]
- [Efficiency, and plot ]

- Watch the following video on the YouTube playlist to learn how to model a heat exchanger using the Shortcut method
in ASPEN Plus.  For more Aspen plus tutorials visit the Cornell CBE YouTube channel

