- This screencast demonstrates how to input data and run a simulation in Aspen Plus Software.

- This video will utilize the flowsheet developed in Chapter 1.2 the building a flow sheet screencast.

- When a simulation is loaded, or a new simulation is created, the screen defaults to the properties tab.cc

- Here relevant simulation information can be entered into the program.

- To begin, make sure you are on the components folder in the menu tree on the left, and on the specifications subitem.

- Specify that water methane ethane and propane are the process chemicals.

- Chemicals can be selected by entering their known component ID in the component ID field.
  
- Note that Aspen plus will not allow you to enter component IDs greater than 8 characters long. In this case, you will have to enter the
  full component name or alias, and label the component with a custom ID.

- You can search for a chemical by clicking on the find box and using part or all of the name as the search criteria.

- Search options may be further specified by compound class, and range of molecular weight or boiling point.

- You can also include or exclude specific property databases from the searc  h.  
c
- Now a list of chemicals matching your search criteria will appear. Select the desired chemical and click add selected compounds.

- After all the process components are entered go to Methods -> Specifications, and select an appropriate property method. Here we will use RK-SOAVE as an example.

- Watch the related video, Chapter 1.1, on choosing a property method for a more detailed explanation.

- Next click on the blue next arrow at the top of the screen. you will be directed to a summary table of interactions. click the arrow again to prompt a dialog box asking if you want to run the property analysis. click OK and Aspen will do so

- After the results are generated click on the simulation tab at the bottom left of your screen.

- Notice that some folders in the menu tree have blue check marks on them while others have red circles. Blue checkmarks indicate sufficient information has been inputted for that section. Red circles denote that further information is required.

- You can click on the arrow next to a folder to expand the menu tree. This allows you to see more specifically the information that needs to be entered. Alternatively you can click on the blue arrow at the top of the screen to be brought to  any menus that have outstanding fields to be filled.

- Notice the name of the input screen on both the tab at the top of the input box as well as on the menu tree. You can switch back and forth between the main process flowsheet and the input menus by clicking the relevant tabs.

- Recall that our process flowsheet consists of a single two stream heat exchanger. For the inlet coolant stream, let's suppose cooling water enters at 68 degrees farenheit at 14.7 psia, with a mass flow rate of 20 lb/min. Change the total flow basis to mass, and input the flow rate in the appropriate box.
e
- In composition change the left box to mass flow and specify that all 20 lb/min   is water. Alternatively you specify the individual component flow rates of the stream by mass or mol fraction.

- Specify water as one.

- Click the blue next arrow to go to the inlet stream. Let's suppose the stream enters at 400 degrees F in one bar with a mass flow rate of 35 lb/min.

- In composition change the select Mass-Frac and specify the stream as 50 percent methane, 30 percent ethane, and 20 percent propane.

- Now click the blue next arrow to go to the heat exchanger tab.

- For this screencast leave the calculation mode as design 
- Under the exchanger specification tab choose hot stream outlet temperature from the drop-down menu and to 212 degrees Farenheit in the value box. Change the approach temperature to 15 degrees F. Watch the related video, Chapter 4.1, on the shortcut heat exchanger method to learn more about the simulation block. 
  
-  Pressing the blue next arrow again will open a dialog box confirming the required input is complete, and asking if you want to run the simulation. Click OK. you can now view the results.

- Watch the following video in the YouTube playlist to learn about convergence and presentation of results. For more Aspen tutorials, visit the Cornell CBE YouTube channel.