- This screencast provides a detailed overview of simulation convergence and presentation of results in the Aspen Plus software.

- This video will utilize the flowsheet developed in Chapter 1.3, the data input and running the simulation screencast. 

- Once the simulation is run, Aspen will tell you whether or not it was able to converge on a solution. 

- Some common reasons for a simulation not converging include choosing an invalid property method, complex recycle structure, thermodynamic violations such as 
temperature crossover in a heat exchanger, and incorrectly entered unit operation information, such as the number of stages or reflux ratio in a distillation column. 

- Aspen will alert you of any problems associated with the solution by reporting warnings and errors at the bottom of the control panel screen. 

- Common warnings include loosely specified tolerances or violation of user inputted safety design parameters.

- Common errors include failure to convergence and using simulation parameters that are physically inconsistent. 

- Let's demonstrate this by changing the temperatures in the streams of our heat exchanger example. Suppose the coolant inlet temperature was higher than the coolant outlet temperature, while keeping the feed inlet and outlet temperatures the same. Running the simulation would cause ASPEN to produce an error denoting that the block
parameters are invalid.

- It is always a good idea to do a quick double check on your results. 

- On the menu bar at the top of the screen, click on the “Stream Summary” button.

- Various process variables, including temperature, pressure, flow rate, and vapor fraction, are displayed for each stream.

- You should double check that all values make physical sense and that the material balance is correct.

- You can add the stream table to your flow sheet by clicking on the “Send to Flowsheet” button at the top of your screen.

- You can reposition the strea m table by clicking and dragging.    

- The flow sheet can then be printed and submitted in a report.

- Another useful appendix to any report is the input summary. 

- Go to the Home tab at the top of the screen and click the “input” button on the top of the menu bar to open the input summary in notepad. 

- This report details all of the process information entered by the user such as inlet stream conditions and unit operation parameters. 

- A third appendix to add to a report is an individualised block report. 

- Click the report button on the top menu bar.

- You can then select a specific simulation block you want to report for and click OK

- The generated report will open a notepad and details a mass and energy bal ance and stream conditions for the inlet and outlet streams  

- Watch the following video in the YouTube playlist to see an application of the introduction to Aspen Plus chapter on a ethylacetate production plant.

- For more Aspen Plus tutorials visit the Cornell CBE Youtube Channel.
