- This screencast applies the fundamentals within Chapter 1's Introduction to Aspen Plus to setup a model for an ethylacetate production plant in Aspen Plus.
- The goal is to model a plant that produces 98 weight % solution of ethylacetate and water. (Discuss why the ethyl acetate is important here?)
- The plant is specified to contain two feed streams - a 200 kg/min stream of ethanol and a 261 kg/min stream of acetic acid
- The reaction of interest is depicted on the screen. Feel free to pause the video to review these design specifications. 
- This process involves a reactor where acetic acid and ethanol are reacted to equilibrium. This reaction occurs in two phases with a vapor drawoff.
- The liquid effluent from the reactor flows into a distillation column and separates into a ethylacetate rich distillate and impure ethylacetate bottoms.
- To begin, open Aspen Plus and create a new simulation with metric units. 
- Input the process components acetic acid, ethylacetate, ethanol, and water.
- Click on the blue "Next" arrow to move on
- Choose the UNIFAC method as we will be working mainly with nonpolar hydrocarbon components that do not follow ideal behavior 
- Press the blue "Next" arrow again and run the property
analysis.
- Press the blue next arrow once more and go to the simulation
environment.
- Save your file where it can be accessed later.
- Watch the following video in the Youtube playlist to continue the series.
- For more Aspen Plus tutorials, visit the Cornell CBE Youtube Channel