- This screencast demonstrates how to use a flash separator in the Aspen plus software.
- Flash drums are separation devices used to separate vapor-liquid mixtures. 
- The flash model in Aspen Plus can simulate various unit operations including surge or knockout drums, partial condensers or heaters and single-stage liquid-liquid extractors.
- The Flash2 model has two outlet streams one in the vapor phase and one in the liquid phase, while the Flash3 model has three outlets, a vapor, a liquid, and a second liquid phase.
- In this screencast, we will simulate two flash separators in series.
- To begin, open a new simulation with English units.
- Input the components Hydrogen, Methane, Benzene, and Toluene.
- Select the property method Peng-Robinson.
- Run the property analysis and then go to the simulation environment.
Create two Flash2 models in series.
- Label as separators and feed and product streams appropriately.
- Click the blue “Next” arrow to input information about the feed 
- The feed enters at 200 degreccccces Fahrenheit and 550 psia.
- The feed flow in pound moles per hour is 405 hydrogen, 95 methane, 95 benzene, and 5 toluene.
- Next, input information about the first flash drum. 
- Specify the temperature as 200 degrees Fahrenheit and pressure as 500 psia. 
- We will specify the second flash drum as adiabatic and operating at 1 atmosphere.c
- Once all the information is entered, run the simulation. 
- View the stream summary to see the results.
- We can see almost all of the light hydrocarbons, hydrogen, and methane leave the system in the Vapor 1 stream.
- The heavier hydrocarbons, benzene and toluene, proceed to the second flash unit where they both exit in the liquid stream. 
- We can see a flash separator operating at these parameters is not an appropriate separation technique for benzene and toluene.
- On the menu tree, click on the results under FL 1 to see the heat duty of the unit operation. 
- Click on the results under FL 2 to see the outlet temperature.
- Watch the following video on the YouTube playlist to learn how to use a DSTWU separation model to simulate a distillation column.
- For more Aspen Plus tutorials visit the Cornell CBE YouTube channel.
