 - In this screencast, we will build on the first part of our ethylacetate process, which takes ethanol and acetic acid as inputs and outputs a 98 wt%
 - ethylacetate and 2% water stream.
 - We will begin from the example reactor model built in Chapter 2.2.
 - We would first like to separate out our desired ethylacetate from the effluent of the reactor.
 - Create a new RadFrac block. Connect the effluent stream of the reactor to the inlet of the column, and create the appropriate outlets treams.
 - Change the mass flow of ethanol into the reactor to 12000 kg/hr. Then, change the mass flow of acetic acid to 15,660 kg/hr.
 - Go to the RadFrac specifications under the menu tree.
 - Make sure the calculation type is Equilbrium.
 - Leave the stream temperatures and pressures at 25 degree C and 1 bar.
 - Change the operating specifications to reflux ratio, with a value of 3 on a mol ratio basis, and 
  the reboiler duty to 3500 kJ/sec.
- Change the number of stages to 23.
 - Click on the streams tab. Change the feed stage to 12, the bottoms to stage 23, and the condensate to stage 1. 
 - Run the simulation and view the results.
 - The composition of the distillate out the top is 85 wt%. We would like to increase this to 98%.
 - To do so, model a dehydrator by creating a user-defined model. This will serve as a "black-box".
 - Enter the desired outlet copmosition of 98 wt%. 
- Watch the following video on the YouTube playlist to learn how to model heat exchangers in Aspen Plus. For more Aspen plus tutorials visit the Cornell CBE YouTube channel