- This screencast will detail how to simulate a valve in Aspen Plus software.
- To begin, create a new simulation with metric units.
- Enter the process component hydrogen.
- Choose RK-Soave as the property method.
- Run the property analysis and go to the simulation environment.
- Under the pressure changers tab, create a valve simulated block
- Create an inlet and an outlet stream, labeling everything appropriately.
- Click the blue “Next” arrow to enter information about the feed.
- Suppose the feed enters at 50 degrees Celsius and 21 bar at a mass flow rate of 500 kilograms per hour.
- Click the blue “Next” arrow to enter information about the valve.
- Choose to calculate the valve flow coefficients for specified outlet pressure.
- Input the outlet pressure at 20 bar.
- Next, go to the valve parameters tab.
- Choose the globe valve as the valve type and choose the default manufacturer select V810 equal percentage flow as the series/style and the size as 1.5 inches.
- Aspen will display the valve parameters in the table below.
- Run the simulation and click on the results under the valve block in the menu tree.
- Note the choked outlet pressure which represents the maximum outlet pressure if the upstream pipe was choking.
- Also note the valve flow coefficient and the percent openness.
- Watch the following video in the YouTube playlist to see an application of the concepts learned in the chapter 5 pressure changers to an ethylacetate production plant.
- For more Aspen plus tutorials, visit the Cornell CBE YouTube channel.
- 