- This screencast demonstrates how to use a pump simulator block in the Aspen Plus software. 
- To begin, create a new simulation with English units.
- Enter the process component water and select the steam tables as your property method.
- Run the property analysis then go to the simulation environment. 
- Under the pressure changers tab, create a pump.
- Connect the inlet and outlet streams and label everything appropriately.
- Click the blue “Next” arrow to enter information about the feed stream. 
- Specify the temperature as 100 degrees Fahrenheit and the pressure at 80 psi.
- Enter the mass flow rate of water as 10 thousand kilograms per hour.
- Next, enter information about the pump.
- We will use a performance curve to determine the discharge conditions. 
- Enter the pump and driver efficiencies at 60 and 90 percent, respectively.
- Click on the blue “Next” arrow cto enter information about the pump performance.
- First, select tabular data as the curve format with the performance and flow variables as head and volumetric flow rate, respectively. 
- We will input a single curve at the operating speed. 
- Click on the blue “Next arrow” to enter the curve data.
- The data we have has head in units of meters and flow in units of cubic meters per hour 
- In the data table, enter 40, 250, 300, and 400 meters.
- Enter corresponding flow rates of 20, 10, 5, and 3 meters cubed per hour.
- You are now ready to run the simulation.
- Once the solution converges, click on the results under the pump block to see the brake power and the net positive suction head.
- Now, instead of having pump efficiency as constant value, we will create an efficiency curve that varies as a function of flow rate.
- Purge the results and go back to the setup folder on the menu tree.
- Delete the pump and driver efficiencies from previously.
- Go to the performance curve folder and click on the efficiencies tab.
- Change the flow rate to cubic meters per hour and enter the efficiencies of 60, 62, 61, and 60% corresponding to 20 10 5 and 3 cubic meters per hour.
- Run the simulation and view the results.
- Notice how the brake power slightly decreased and the net positive suction head stayed the same.
- Notice that the pump efficiency used is 62%.
- Watch the following video in the YouTube playlist to learn how to use a compressor simulator block.
- For more Aspen plus tutorials, visit the Cornell CBE YouTube channel.
