- This screencast provides an overview of the various reactor simulation blocks in Aspen Plus software.

- There are seven reactor simulac ctor blocks in Aspen. RStoic and RYield are balance-based models meaning they simply require a material balance and a conversion extent. Therefore, the model does not take into account equilibrium or kinetics of the reaction. 
 
- The RStoic model can simulate a reaction by specifying the reaction stoichiometry and reaction extent. Reaction dynamics may
also be roughly modeled by turning on Dynamic Mode, going to the Dynamic subitem in the menu tree, and specifying the reactor geometry, aka whether the reactor is a CSTR or plug flow reactor. Otherwise, RStoic will default to instantaneous reaction, for steady state modeling.  Note 
that RStoic provides a rough model of the CSTR and plug flow reactor types - for more rigorous modeling, the RCSTR model and RPlug model
should be used, respectively. 
- The RYield model only requires specifying reaction yields, and does not require reaction stoichiometry as in RStoic. An example of a reaction where an RYield model would be appropriate to use is the cracking of coal. Reaction dynamics can be modeled similarly to RStoic.


- REquil and RGibbs are equilibrium-based models and are used for reversible reactions.

- REquil is a simpler model and can calculate both the chemical and phase equilibrium of a reaction. This model requires prior knowledge of the reaction stoichiometry.

- RGibbs is useful in situations in which not all the reactants or reactions are known, such as in petroleum refining. RGibbs determines the outlet stream composition by minimizing the Gibbs free energy of the system.
- Note that if a model of the reaction dynamics is desired, RGibbs does not have an option for CSTRs.

- RCSTR, RPlug, and RBatch are all kinetic-based models, meaning the kinetics of the reaction must be known. Additionally, all three can be used to calculate the reactor duty. The most common rate law used in Aspen Plus is the power law method. 
- RCSTR model is a continuous, stirred-tank tank reactor and can have multiple inlets and different phase outlet streams. Perfect mixing is assumed here.
- RPlug models a plug flow reactor or PFR in which the length and diameter need to be specified. Perfect mixing in the radial direction, and zero mixing in the axial direction, is assumed here.
- RBatch can model batch processes in which the cycle time is known. RBatch models can work in conjunction with holding tanks to model continuous processes. 

As with the previous reactor types, RCSTR and RPlug also support dynamic simulations in addition to steady-state.

Watch the following video in the YouTube playlist to understand out four of these reactor models work in-depth through an example problem on the production of ethyl acetate. For more Aspen tutorials, visit the Cornell CBE YouTube channel.
