- This screencast demonstrates the use of reactor models RStoic, RGibbs, RPlug, and RCSTR through an example problem on the production of ethyl acetate.
- Open your Aspen simulation and beginning new flow sheet using metric units to start enter the components ethanol, acetic acid, ethyl acetate, and water choose NRTL as your method. 
- Watch the related video to learn more about choosing a property method.
- When all the information is entered run the property analysis and then go to the simulation environment.
- To run all four reactors in one simulation create a duplicator block which duplicates an inlet stream and can send it to multiple locations.
- Create an RStoic, RPlug and RCSTR block, renaming each as such.
- Add a feed stream to the ducplicator and connect the duplicator outlets to each reactor, naming the streams FReactor. Create product streams from each reactor naming them PReactor.dc
- Click the blue next arrow to specify the feed conditions the stream enters at: 70 degrees Celsius in 1 atm.
- Input the following values in kmol/hr: 8.892 water, 186.59 ethanol and 192.6 acetic acid.
- Click the blue next arrow to go to the CSTR block.
- For the sake of comparison all reactors will be specified at one atmosphere and seventy degrees Celsius.
- Make sure all reactors have vapor-liquid selected as the valid phases.
- For the CSTR, specify a volume of 0.14 cubic meters.
- You can see that the RCSTR model requires a reaction to be entered before you can proceed in the simulation.
- Scroll down on the menu tree and click on the reactions folder. Click new.
- Keep the label as R1, and select a power-law reaction type.
- Click new again and enter the forward reaction.
- Ethanol + acetic acid goes to ethyl acetate in water.
- Assume the reaction is first order with respect to each of the reactants and zeroth order with respect to the products.
- Enter negative 1 and 1 for the coefficients and 1 in 0 for the exponents of your reactants and products respectively.
- Now enter the reversible reaction. Ethyl acetate plus water goes to ethanol and acetic acid andc 2 negative 1 and 1 for the coefficients and 1 and 0 for the exponent of your reactants and products respectively.
- Press the blue next arrow to input the reactions kinetic information for both reactions 
- Tccc che reacting phase will be liquid and the concentration basis will be molarity.
- For the forward reaction specify a k value as 1.9 * 10^8 and an e value as 5.95 * 10^7 J/kmol. Make sure the units are correct before proceeding repeat the process for the reverse reaction by selecting it from the drop down menu.c
- The K value for the reverse reaction is 5.0 * 10^7 and the e value is 5.95 * 10^7 J/kmol.
- Press the blue arrow to go back to the CSTR reaction tab.
- You can now move the r-1 reaction to your selected reaction set.
- Pressing the blue arrow brings you to our Gibbs.
- Remember the reactor is operating at 180 M and 70 degrees Celsius Pressing the blue next arrow allows you to specify the reactor type.
- Choose reactor with specified temperature as the reactor type The operating condition should be constant.
- At specified reactor temperature enter 70 degrees Celsius.Pressing the blue arrow brings you to the configucration step input a length of 2 meters in a diameter of 0.3 meters ensure the process stream valid phases are vapor liquid go to the reactions tab and select r1 as your reaction set.
- Pressing the blue arrow again brings you to our stoick input your reactor temperature and pressure.
- On the reactions tab click new and input the forward reaction with the appropriate coefficients enter 0.7 as the fractional conversion of ethanol.
- Press the blue arrow and run the simulation.
- Open the stream summary and view the results.
- You can compare the production rate of ethyl acetate of the four reactors.
- You can see the RGives actually produces the most ethyl acetate while our CSTR produces the least.
- Additionally if you click on the CSTR block results on the menu tree you can see the heat duty required for this equipment.
- Watch the following video in the YouTube playlist to see an application of the reactors chapter on a chlorobenzene production plant. For more ASPEN videos, visit the Cornell CBE Youtube channel.