- This screencast introduces Aspen plus and describes the various property methods available for use in the software.
- In industry, engineers typically use software programs, such as Aspen Plus, to solve complicated problems as hand calculations are prone to human error and require more time.
- Aspen Plus is a process simulator that allows you to predict the behavior of a process at a finer granularity by using basic engineering relationships, such as mass and energy balances, thermodynamic principles and phase and chemical equilibrium. 
- The software package includes sets of predefined mathematical relationships and equations, and allows for the input of  custom user-defined FORTRAN subroutines.
- ASPEN plus enables process engineers to model reactors, fractionation systems, and more, and both determine and optimize crucial process design parameters
- Before developing a flow sheet or running a simulation, it is important to select an appropriate property method to analyze your process, as certain chemical phenomena are more accurately represented in one versus another depending on the nature of the process.
- A property method is simply a set of calculation procedures for chemical and thermodynamic properties like fugacity, enthalpy, entropy and volume. Different property methods may mix and match thermodynamic property models, transport property models, and nonconvenentional solid property models.

# IDEAL
The IDEAL property method class is based on Henry's and Raoult's law, and relies on several assumptions of ideality. 

The activity coefficient is assumed to be 1, and the ideal gas equation of state is used. Liquid molar volumes are estimated according to the Rackett model. Transport phenomena is modeled based on empirical equations fit to experimental data. 

This is appropriate for systems at low pressure or vacuum or systems at high temperature, where low mol fractions of liquid are present.

(Slides)

PV=nRT) \
\gamma = 1

# EOS for high pressure hydrocarbon applications

A second class of property methods are the Equation-of-State property methods for high pressure hydrocarbon applications.

Benedict-Webb-Rubin-Starling equation of state, Lee Kesler-Plocker equation of state, Peng-Robinson-Boston-Mathias equation of state,  or Redlich-Kwong-Soave-Boston-Mathias equation of state. These property methods use the TRAPP transport model for viscosity and thermal conductivity. These property methods also produce reasonable results under high pressures and temperatures, and can handle mixtures close to their critical point. This class of property methods should not be used in the presence of polar components.

Examples of applications include: combustion in power generation, petrochemical quench towers, and ammonia plants.

##  Flexible and predictive equations of state

The property methods in the flexible and predictive equations of state class can be used with mixtures of polar and nonpolar components and light gases. 

They utilize the Peng-Robinson or Redlich-Kwong-Soave equation of state, or related variants, to model thermodynamic behavior. The mixing rules that model molecular interactions can be one of several depending on the specific property method, including Wong-Sandler rules, Holderbaum-Gmehling rules, and Schwartzentruber-Renon rules.

High pressures and temperatures, mixtures close to their critical points, and liquid-liquid separation at high pressure can be reasonably modeled. Systems where components with very similar boiling points are separated, can be modeled very accurately.

Example applications include gas drying with glycols, the claus process, and air separations.

# Liquid Activity Coefficient Models

Liquid activity coefficient models are used for nonideal and strongly nonideal mixtures at low pressures, up to a maximum of 10atm. 

## NRTL (non random two liquid model)
Models vapor-liquid and liquid-liquid equilibrium of strongly nonideal solutions very well, and is suitable for most combinations of polar and nonpolar compounds. It is suitable for most operating conditions with the exception of those near the critical temperature of a component.

## UNIQUAC (universal quasichemical)
Includes more detailed assumptions of molecular geometry and entropy contributions to determine phase equilibria.

## UNIFAC (Universical quasichemical functional group)
Works with group-group interations rather than molecule-molecule interactions.

## WILSON
Cannot handle nonideal liquid-liquid mixtures.

Example applications include azeotropic separations, liquid phase reactions, and ether production.

# Liquid fugacity and K-value correlations:

BK10: based on Braun K-10 K-values correlations for multicomponent oil mixtures. Suitable for purely aliphatic or purely aromatic mixtures, with boiling points between 450K and 700K.

Recommended for systems containing hydrocarbons and light gases. Suitable for modeling crude towers, vacuum towers, some parts of the ethylene process.

The next three property methods utilize:

  ​	•Redlich-Kwong equation of state for vapor phase properties

​	  • Lee-Kesler equation of state for liquid and vapor enthalpy

​	  • American Petroleum Institute method

## CHAO-SEA

​	200 < T <  533 

​	K 0.5  < Tri<  1.3

​	Trm <  0.93

​	P  <  140 atm

## GRAYSON/GRAYSON2

The GRAYSON family of property methods gives reasonable results between 60F to 800F and up to 3000 psia.

​The Grayson-Streed correlation for reference state fugacity coefficients is used, along with the TRAPP model for transport phenomena.
The GRAYSON property methods also use the Scatchard-Hildebrand model for activity coefficients.

## MXBONNEL

Finally, the MXBONNEL property method is suitable for low pressure applications, similar to the previously discussed BK10, but with the Maxwell Bonnell vapor pressure method used instead for hydrocarbon pseudocomponents.

(Slides)
​	  - low pressure, vacuum applications.

​	  - Maxwell-Bonnell model for vapor pressure to compute liquid fugacity coefficient; ideal gas for vapor fugacity coefficients

​	  - TRAPP transport

# Other
In addition to the property methods we have detailed, ASPEN also offers specific property methods for processes involving electrolytes, solids, and steam.

For more information, refer to Chapter 2 of the ASPEN v11.1 Property Methods guide. Alternatively you can view detailed documentation of these property methods in-program, by going to the Resources Tab, clicking the Help button, going to Using the Properties Environment, and Physical Property Methods

# Property Method Assistant

