- This screencast demonstrates how to build a flow sheet in Aspen Plus software. 

- To begin a new project click on the File Tab and click New.
- ASPEN conveniently provides templates for common process types, each of which may be used with imperial or metric units.

- Aspen Plus provides a variety of unit operations at the bottom of the screen. Models are grouped in chapters according to their unit operation type. Options are Mixers/Splitters; Separators which include flash drums and decanters; Heat Exchangers which include simple heaters, coolers, multi-stream heat exchangers, and shell and tube heat exchangers; Columns comprised of different models of distillation columns; Reactors which include CSTRs, plug reactors, and batch reactors; Pressure Changers which include pumps, compressors, and pipes; Manipulators refer to flow sheet manipulators; and the last two categories: Solids and Solid Separators include common solid processing unit operations.

- For this tutorial, we will model a two-stream heat exchanger. Click on the heat exchanger tab to add the unit operation. Simply click and place the equipment in the middle of your flow sheets. Label the heat exchanger “HEAT EX”. To add material streams, click on the Material icon and connect your streams to the designated inlets and outlets of the unit operation. You can straighten your lines by clicking on the Align button. Label your streams to easily identify them later.

- PAUSE (screencast is labeling streams)

- Watch the following video in the YouTube playlist to learn how to input data and run a simulation. For more Aspen tutorials, visit the Lafayette ChBE YouTube channel. 
