- This screencast provides a detailed overview of simulation convergence and presentation of results in the Aspen Plus software.
- This video will utilize the flowsheet developed in the data input in running the simulation screencast. 
- Once the simulation is run, Aspen will tell you whether or not it was able to converge on a solution. 
- Some common reasons for a simulation not converging include choosing an invalid property method, complex recycle structure, thermodynamic violations such as temperature crossover in a heat exchanger, and inco ccccrrectly entered unit operation information such as the number of stages or reflux ratio in a distillation column. 
- Aspen will alert you of any problems associated with the solution by reporting warnings and errors at the bottom of the control panel screen. 
- It is always a good idea to do a quic  k double check on your results. 
- On the menu bar at the top of the screen, click on the “Stream Summary” button.
- Various process variables, including temperature, pressure, flow rate, and vapor fraction, are displayed for each stream.
- You should double check that all values make physical sense and that the material balance is correct.
- You can add the stream table to your flow sheet by clicking on the “Send to Flowsheet” button at the top of your screen.
- You can reposition the strea m table by clicking and dragging.    
- The flow sheet can then be printed and submitted in a report.[ ]
- Another useful appendix to any report is the input summary. 
- Go to the   Home tab at the top of the screen and click the “input” button on the top of the menu bar to open the input summary in the notepad. 
- This report details all of the process information entered by the user such as inlet stream conditions and unit operation parameters. 
- A third appendix to add to a report is an individualised block report. 
- Click the report button on the top menu bar.
- You can then select a specific simulation block you want to report for and click OK
- The generated report will open a notepad and details a mass and energy bal ance and stream conditions for the inlet and outlet streams  
- Watch the following video in the YouTube playlist to see an application of the introduction to Aspen Plus chapter on a ethylacetate production plant.
- For more Aspen Plus tutorials visit the Cornell CBE Youtube Channel.
