- This screencast applies the fundamentals within Chapter 1's Introduction to Aspen Plus to setup a model for an ethylacetate production plant in Aspen Plus.

- The goal is to model a plant that produces 85 (Maybe should be 75) mole percent solution of ethylacetate and water. (Discuss why the ethyl acetate is important here?)

- The plant is specified to contain two feed streams of pure acetic acid and ethanol both with flow rates of 200 kilograms per minute.  

- The reaction of interest is depicted on the screen. Feel free to pause the video to review these design specifications. 

- This process involves a reactor where acetic acid and ethanol are reacted to equilibrium. This reaction occurs in two phases with a vapor drawoff.


- The liquid effluent from the reactor flows into a distillation column and separates into a ethylacetate rich distillate and impure ethylacetate bottoms.

- The bottoms can be used as a potential recycle source. 

- To begin, open Aspen Plus and create a
new simulation with metric units. 

- Input the process components acetic acid, ethylacetate, ethanol, and water.

- Click on the blue "Next" arrow to move on

- Choose the UNIFAC method as we will
be working mainly with nonpolar
hydrocarbon components that do not
follow ideal behavior 

- Press the blue "Next" arrow again and run the property
analysis.

- Press the blue next arrow once more and go to the simulation
environment.

- Save your file where it can be accessed later.

- Watch the following video in the Youtube playlist to continue the series.

- For more Aspen Plus tutorials, visit the Cornell CBE Youtube Channel