- This screencast will detail how to use Aspen plus software to fulfill design specifications.
- Recall that the problem statement required the ethylacetate product stream to have a purity of 98 wt% ethylacetate and 2% wt water.
- After running the simulation, we learned that our single flash separator could not meet this target purity alone, as a ternary azeotrope forms
between ethyl acetate, water and ethanol.
- We would instead like to achieve our desired 98 wt% purity by first separating out the acetic acid from the ternary azeotropic mixture,
then separating out the ethyl acetate in a subsequent column.
- This is achievable through adding additional unit operations, and using the design specifications tool in Aspen Plus. 
- To begin, open the ethylacetate plant simulation.
- Create a new RadFrac block, and connect the effluent out of the reactor to the input port. Create the outlet streams.
- Go to specificartions and input the number of stages as 10.
- The coluumn should have a total condenser, with a vapor-liquid phase, ar eflux ratio of 2, anda bottoms rate of 20 kg/min.
- ASPEN provides two ways to input design specifications -- either in a submenu located under the block in question,
or as part of the overall flowsheet options. We will first demonstrate the former.
- On the menu tree under the column block folder, click on Design Specifications. Click on New and double click the row.
- Create a new specification.
- Name the variable “RECOVERY"
- Specify the category as streams, the type as mole recovered, the stream as AA, and the component as acetic acid.
- Input .999 as the value
- On the “Vary” tab, we will iterate over a range of bottoms flow rates.
- Specify the type as “Bottoms rate”, the lower bound as 200 kg/hr and the upper bound as 5000 kg/hr
- Run the simulation.
- Go to stream results under the column  block in  the menu tree.
- We can see that virtually all the acetic acid leaves in the bottoms, and virtually all the ethyl acetate  leaves in the distillate.

- Place a mixer block on the flowsheet. 
- Go to the separators tab and place a decanter after the mixer.
- Then, place a final RadFrac block after the decanter.
- Connect the streams as shown on screen.
- Water is added to the ternary distillate to pass the azeotropic point, and the mixture is fed into a decanter to separate out the aqueous phase.
- The effluent goes into a final column, where pure ethyl acetate exits the bottom.

- Now we will demonstrate how to create a design specification as a property of the overall flowsheet.
- This is useful when we want to manipulate streams or variables that do not pertain to the same block.
- Go to flowsheeting options under the  menu t ree, a nd  click Design  Specs.
- Create a new spec and call it EAPURITY.
- Create a new Variable. 
- In the reference area, choose Mass-Frac as type, the final ethylacetate stream as the stream, and the component as
ethyl acetate.
- Go to the spec tab. Enter PURITY as the specification name, the target as .98 and the tolerance as .0001.
- Go to the vary tab. Enter  Mass-Flow as the type, WATER for stream, WATER  for the component, and the units as  kg/min.
- Enter  the  lower limit as 200  and the  upper limit as 800.
- Run the simulation and view the results.
- As you can see, a 98 percent ethyl acetate stream leaves the bottom of the final distillation column. Some ethyl acetate exits as distillate and is recycled back into the decanter.
Explanation:

- Notice that there is no recycle from the acetic acid separations column back to the reactor. This could be implemented
for increased process efficiency, but because there is no minimum production requirement in the problem statement,
it has been omitted for simplicity.

- Watch the following video in the Youtube playlist to learn how to conduct a sensitivity analysis in  Aspen Plus software.
- For more tutorials visit the Cornell CBE YouTube channel.
- 