- This screencast will detail how to simulate a batch separation in ASPEN Plus software.

- Historically, ASPEN has been fine tuned to handle the modeling and simulation of continuous processes. 
- ASPEN version 11 introduces new improvements in performance and accessibility for batch modeling, including support for mixed distillation-reaction

- To begin, create a new simulation with metric units.
- Suppose you want to run a batch separation of propane, butane, pentane and hexane.
-  

At a high level, you specify initial conditions and operating steps. The operating steps will transform your the conditions
in your column until the stop criteria is reached, logging the behavior of the process throughout the time.


Number of stages 
  - includes the still pot

Receivers: 1

Configuration

- Overhead
- Distillate receivers
- Pressure & Holdsup
- Pot heat transfer
- Initial condition

Streams
- Pot charge
- Continuous feeds
- Distillate receivers
- Side draw receivers

Pressure & Holdups
- Calculation options
- Overhead
- Pressure drop
- Holdups

Condenser
- Condenser type (partial, partial w/ 2nd condenser gives more options)
- Condenser specification
- Subcooling sepcification

Pot
- Geometry
- Tan-Tan length

Heat Transfer
- Boilup rate vs. reboiler duty
- Shortcut vs. Rigorous

Initial Conditions
- Initial Conditions
- charge

Operating Steps
- Order of execution of steps in your batch separation
  - Operating changes
  - Stop criteria
    - Duration
    - Process variable
  - Hard limit if stop criteria is not reached
  - Important: APPROACH FROM

Now run the execution. You can observe that the visual of the reactor changes in color to help distinguish the current running operating steps.

Results
  - General summary
  - Profile Results
  - Time profiles
  - Stream results

Tray Geometry
  - This step is important for design phase in industry where you need to evaluate performance between different options for trays or packings

EXAMPLE:
  - 1 column, tray from 2-9, tray spacing 2 ft, 1m/3ft of diameter
  - --> then specify downcomers and wiers
  - Go to the flooding tab. Specify the flooding calculations if desired.
    - Different equations for trays and packing
  - Controller options?

Show EXAMPLE:
  - Startup
  - Product creation

Operating steps EXAMPLE:
  - C3 > Butane > Pentane > Hexane, order of relative volatility
  - Propane in first receiver
  - Pure butane to second receiver
  - 9 kmol charge, 1 hour
  - 
  - excess, including a little hexane, to fourth receiver
  - Nearly pure hexane out of the top at the end.


1. C-3
   1. - Reflux splitter
   2. 

Base case - set liquid mol fraction to 0.2

If you're evaluating multiple stop criteria to find which one produces your desired result in the minimum amount of time,
you can define several stop criteria. ASPEN will hit the first one that is satisfied.


Before the simulation is run, you can setup a dynamic plot for several options of process variables throughout the duration
of the separation. (e.g. Mol fractions, temperature, pressure)

Go over plot display options briefly here. (scrolling timeline vs. full timeline)

Now run the simulation.

....




# Reference examples
- ASPEN Webinar: Maximizing Batch Distillation Performance Using ASPEN Plus
- https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0TuQDNOLkJg (This one is in Thai. I'll translate for you if you want to watch)
