- This screencast will detail how to use calculator blocks in Aspen Plus software. 

- To begin, open your ethylacetate plant simulation with a sensitivity study from Chapter 8.2, running the sensitivity analysis. 
- On the menu tree under flowsheet options, click on the calculator folder.
- Create a new calculator block.
- For this video, we will study how fluctuations in the feed flow rate affect the two product stream compositions.
- In order to maintain the mass composition of 98 wt% ethylacetate, we are going to use a calculator block.
- Aspen uses calculator blocks to change multiple variables by only manipulating one. 
- A common application of calculator blocks is when reactants are fed in a specific ratio, for example, in steam methane reforming.
- Enter two new variables: FACETIC and FETHANOL. 
- Define FACETIC  as a molar flow rate of water in the acetic acid feed stream. 
- Make FACETIC import variable meaning Aspen could use it to compute other variables. 
- Define FETHANOL as a molar flow rate of benzene in the ethanol feed stream. 
- Make FETHANOL an export variable meaning Aspen will calculate the value based on import variables. 

- On the Calculate tab, place the cursor in the seventh column of the Fortran input block, type FETHANOL equals 19 times FACETIC. 
- 19 comes from the ratio of ethanol to acetic acid in the feed stream. 
- Spaces, spelling, and capitalization matter in this code. 
- If your input is not entered correctly, the calculator block will not work. 
- Next, we are going to use a sensitivity analysis to study how changes in the ethanol feed flow rate affect the product compositions. 
- Go to the sensitivity folder on a menu tree and create a new sensitivity analysis.
- The stream component to be varied is the ethanol, the range is [] and the increment is [].

- On the Define tab, define two new variables FETHANOL and FEEDFRAC. 
- FETHANOL will be the flow rate of benzene in the feed stream and FEEDFRAC will be the mass fraction of ethanol in the feed stream. 
- Add the two variables in the Tabulate tab, run the analysis. 
- By viewing the results of the sensitivity analysis, you can see that the flow rate of ethanol did indeed change as a function of the acetic acid flow rate according to the formula entered in the calculator box. 
- FEEDFRAC confirms the composition of the stream stays constant as we want it. 
- Create a plot to visualize the result. 
- We can see that as the mass flow rate of the feed stream is increased, the composition of the ethylacetate product stream increases and the composition of the recycle stream []
- In order to continue to meet design specifications, the ethanol flow rate must be between [] corresponding to a total feed flow rate between [] kilomoles per hour.

- Watch the following video in the Youtube playlist to learn how to model batch separations in Aspen Plus software.
- For more tutorials visit the Cornell CBE YouTube channel.