This chapter will teach you various advanced principles in Aspen plus software. This screencast focuses on finding service physical properties and generating TXY diagrams. 

To begin, create a new simulation. Enter the process components: water and methanol. To view the thermophysical properties of these components, click on retrieve parameters in the top menu bar. Press ok and then yes. Aspen will generate a table that displays the freezing point, molecular weight, eccentric factor, boiling point, and critical points as well as various other thermophysical properties. To create a TXY diagram, you must first choose the property method. Therefore, click on the blue next arrow and choose the Wilson property method click on the blue next arrow and run the property analysis. To generate the TXY diagram, click on the binary button on the top menu select TXY as the analysis type. Other options include PXY and Gibbs energy of mixing. In the composition box, notice the overall range from 0 to 1 mole fraction. This can also be changed a mass fraction if desired. All other inputs are specified already so you can click on the run analysis button. The TXY diagram will be displayed on the 
screen. Under analysis and the menu tree, click on binary 1. Then, click on the results tab to view the data in tabular form for other plot options. Click on the drop-down menu in the plot subsection at the top of the screen.

Watch the following video in the YouTube playlist to learn how to do the sensitivity study in Aspen Plus. For more Aspen tutorials, visit the Lafayette ChBE YouTube channel.
