- This screencast will detail how to use Aspen plus software to fulfill design specifications.
- Recall that the problem statement required the ethylacetate product stream to have a purity of 98 wt% ethylacetate and 2% wt water.
- After running the simulation, we learned that our single flash separator could not meet this target purity alone, as a ternary azeotrope forms
between ethyl acetate, water and ethanol.
- We would instead like to achieve our desired 98 wt% purity by first separating out the acetic acid from the ternary azeotropic mixture,
then separating out the ethyl acetate in a subsequent column.
- This is achievable through adding additional unit operations, and using the design specifications tool in Aspen Plus. 
- To begin, open the ethylacetate plant simulation, beginning from Chapter 2.3.
- Create a new RadFrac block, and connect the effluent out of the reactor to the input port. Create the outlet streams.
- Go to specificartions and input the number of stages as 10.
- The coluumn should have a total condenser, with a vapor-liquid phase, ar eflux ratio of 2, anda bottoms rate of 20 kg/min.
- The feed should come in on stage 5, and the pressure at the top of the condenser is 1  bar.
- ASPEN provides two ways to input design specifications -- either in a submenu located under the block in question,
or as part of the overall flowsheet options. We will first demonstrate the former.
- On the menu tree under the column block folder, click on Design Specifications. Click on New and double click the row.
- Create a new specification.
- Name the variable “RECOVERY"
- Specify the  the type as mole recovery, with a target of .999. The component is acetic  acid, and the product stream is the bottoms of the column.
- On the “Vary” tab, we will iterate over a range of bottoms flow rates.
- Specify the type as “Bottoms rate”, the lower bound as 200 kg/hr and the upper bound as 5000 kg/hr
- Run the simulation.
- ASPEN will give you a dialog stating an error has been encountered. RadFrac has not converged within the default number of iterations.
- Go to the Convergence menu item underthe column block. Change the maximum number of iterations to 200.
- Rerun the simulation.
- Go to stream results under the column block in the menu tree.
- We can see that virtually all the acetic acid leaves in the bottoms, and virtually all the ethyl acetate  leaves in the distillate.

- Place a mixer block on the flowsheet. 
- Go to the separators tab and place a decanter after the mixer.
- Then, place a final RadFrac block after the decanter.
- Connect the streams as shown on screen.
- Water is added to the ternary distillate to pass the azeotropic point, and the mixture is fed into a decanter to separate out the aqueous phase.
- For the water stream, enter 25 degrees celsius, 1 bar, and a flowrate of 200 kg/min.

- Go to the decanter specifications. The pressure is 1 bar and the temperature  is 25 degrees celcius.
- The 2nd liquid phase is water.

- The effluent goes into a final column, where pure ethyl acetate exits the bottom.

- Go to the second column specifications
- The number of stages is 15, w itha total  condenser. 
- The distillate rate is 18500 kg/hr, and the molar reflux ratio is 5.
- The feed stage comes in on stage 8, and the pressure at the condenser is 1 bar.

- Now we will demonstrate how to create a design specification as a property of the overall flowsheet.
- This is useful when we want to manipulate streams or variables that do not pertain to the same block.
- Go to flowsheeting options under the  menu tree, and  click Design  Specs.
- Create a new spec and call it AAPURITY.
- Create a new Variable called PURITY
- In the reference area, choose Mass-Frac as type, the final ethylacetate stream as the stream, and the component as
ethyl acetate.
- Go to the spec tab. Enter PURITY as the specification name, the target as .98 and the tolerance as .0001.
- Go to the vary tab. Enter  Mass-Flow as the type, WATER for stream, WATER  for the component, and the units as  kg/min.
- Enter the lower limit as 200 and the upper limit as 800.
- Run the simulation and view the results.
- As you can see, a 98 percent ethyl acetate stream leaves the bottom of the final distillation column. Some ethyl acetate exits as distillate and is recycled back into the decanter.
Explanation:

- Notice that there is no recycle from the acetic acid separations column back to the reactor. This could be implemented
for increased process efficiency, but because there is no minimum production requirement in the problem statement,
it has been omitted for simplicity. The implementation is left to the viewer as an exercise.

- Watch the following video in the Youtube playlist to learn how to conduct a sensitivity analysis in  Aspen Plus software.
- For more tutorials visit the Cornell CBE YouTube channel.
- 