- This screencast will detail how to use Aspen plus software to fulfill design specifications.
- This video will build upon the results obtained in Chapter Six “Running the ethylacetate plant simulation.
- In the problem statement, introduced at the conception of this problem, it was stated that the ethylacetate product stream had to have a purity of *95* mole % monochlorobenzene.
- There is no minimum production requirement.
- After running the simulation, we learned that our plant could produce a stream that is 95.0 mole percent monochlorobenzene at a flow rate of 18.5 kilomoles per hour.
- Imagine that the market is favorable for the production of monochlorobenzene, so we want to produce at least twenty-five kilomoles per hour.
- This is achievable through the design specifications tool in Aspen Plus. 
- To begin, open the chlorobenzene plant simulation we ran in Chapter Six and go to the main flow sheet.
- On the menu tree under flowsheet options, click on design specs.
- Create a new specification.
- Name the variable “MONOFLOW”
- Specify the category as streams, the type as mol flow, the stream as P-Mono, and the component as monochlorobenzene.
- On the specifications tab enter “MONOFLOW” exactly as you typed it on the defined tab
- Enter the target production value is 25 kilomoles per hour and input a calculation tolerance of 0.1.
- On the “Vary” tab, we will study what flow rate of benzene is needed to achieve the production value.
- Specify the type as “Mole-flow”, the stream as benzene feed, and the component as benzene.
- Specify the lower and upper bounds as 100 and 300 kilomoles per hour.
- Run the simulation.
- To view the results, click on results under the design specs folder.
- We can see that 226.7 kilomoles of benzene need to be fed to the process in order to produce 25 kilomoles per hour of monochlorobenzene.
- View the stream summary to verify we are still meeting purity standards.
- You can calculate the mole percent for both the monochlorobenzeneproduct stream as well as the dichlorobenzene product stream. 
- You will find that they both meet design specifications.
- Watch the following video in the Youtube playlist to learn how to use calculator blocks and Aspen Plus software formula.
- For more tutorials visit the Cornell CBE YouTube channel.
- 