- This screencast will detail how to use Aspen plus software to run a sensitivity analysis.
- Sensitivity analyses are useful for investigating the effect of a change in one flowsheet variable on another.
- We will continue from the example in Chapter 8.2.
- Suppose you would like to investigate the effect of varying the reflux ratio of the final distillation column on the flow rate of ethanol out the distillate.
- Go to the Model Analysis Tools folder on the menu tree and click Sensitivity.
- Create a new variable. Choose the type as block-var and click the corresponding column block.
- Choose MOLE-RR.
- You can specify the method used in determining the evaluation points for the manipulated variable. Leave it as Equidistant
- Specify the range  as 2.5 to 6, with 150 points of evaluation. ASPEN also gives you the option to increment by a user-defined interval.
- Go to the define tab. Create a new variable.
- The type is  MASS-FLOW, the stream is the distillate out the top oft he column, the component is ETHANOL, and the units are kg/hr.
- Go to the tabulate tab and click Fill Variables.
- Run the simulation and go to the Sensitivty Analysis results.
- As you can see, the molar reflux ratio has only a slight effect on the resultant mass flowrate of ethanol in the distillate within the varied range.
- Watch the following video in the Youtube playlist to learn how to conduct a sensitivity analysis in  Aspen Plus software.
- For more tutorials visit the Cornell CBE YouTube channel.